The first common‑sense question we may think about,
why do we need to perform data analysis and why it matters
in the context of the data visualization?
The first reason is that data visualizations make it easy for
us to understand and digest big datasets on aggregate levels
without diving into details.
The second reason is finding outliers and patterns.
It is almost impossible to detect patterns or odd
values by scanning individual records.
A picture worth a thousand words.
Data visualization makes it easy to communicate data
to our nontechnical stakeholders, such as project sponsors.
Finally, data visualization helps a lot in the data preparation phase,
if we are doing machine learning,
as it will guide us on what type of transformations we may
need to apply on our dataset to make it what the machine
learning algorithms expect.
After understanding the importance of data visualization,
we are now in a good position to introduce AWS QuickSight,
Amazon's tool for big data visualization.
It's a business‑oriented data visualization tool meant
for business nontechnical users.
You can think about it as the equivalent of Microsoft Power BI in AWS space.
On a high level, it has the following features,
an affordable pricing model, scalable for a large number of users,
and it's fast since it's using an engine called SPICE,
which we will learn about soon.
Let's now have a deeper look on some solid arguments why
you would like to use AWS QuickSight.
As discussed,
the most important reason in my point of view is that it is very
business friendly and does not require deep,
technical knowledge to use it, like many other reporting tools.
Also, AWS QuickSight makes it easy to collaborate and share.
It even supports mobile reporting.
The datasets are queried over what's so called SPICE,
or Super‑fast, Parallel, In‑memory Calculation Engine.
Lots of fancy words, I know. However,
it is an engine that's engineered to rapidly perform advanced
calculations and serve data. It speeds up the analytical
queries against the imported data.
AWS QuickSight integrates what's so called machine learning insights,
which leverages proven machine learning and language understanding
capabilities to help you gain deeper insights from the data to find out
hidden trends and do what‑if type of analysis.
A newly introduced feature that is currently in preview
is the integration with AWS SageMaker,
which makes it possible for you to connect to any AWS QuickSight‑supported data
sources and select the SageMaker model to use in production.
Finally, the pricing model of AWS QuickSight is reasonable,
and it depends on whether you are using Standard or Enterprise edition.
The Standard edition only supports one role, called author. That's
a user creates and publishes dashboards. On the Enterprise edition,
there is another role called reader,
which is a lightweight role that can only read dashboards without creating them.
We can't do a quick comparison between the Standard and Enterprise
editions of AWS QuickSight based on AWS documentation. We will only
pick subset of the differences to compare.
We can see that the Standard edition does not support the reader
role, while the Enterprise edition supports it.
Also,
we can see that the Standard edition supports SSR using SAML and OIDC protocols.
The same goes for the Enterprise edition.
Also, the Standard edition does not support the row‑level security,
while the Enterprise edition supports that. The standard edition does
not support data encryption at rest. The Enterprise edition supports
that. If you are interested to read more about the differences
between Standard and Enterprise editions, feel free to check the
provided AWS documentation.
Let's conclude with other common visualization options that can be
used, aside from AWS SageMaker. D3, which is a JavaScript library
used for producing dynamic and interactive data visualizations in
the browser. Highcharts, which is a modern SVG‑based,
multi‑platform charting library. It makes it easy to add
interactive charts to web and mobile projects.
Chart.js is a JavaScript library that allows you to create different
types of charts by using the HTML5 canvas element.
As you can see,
all these similar libraries provide an alternative visualization way for us if we don't want to use AWS QuickSight for some reason.